Analyzing the NYC Subway Dataset
Questions:

Section 0. References
Udacity courses:
•	“Intro to Data Science”
•	“Intro to Inferential Statistics”
ggplot Documentation: 
•	bar plot: http://ggplot.yhathq.com/docs/geom_bar.html
•	histogram: http://ggplot.yhathq.com/docs/geom_histogram.html
•	labels: http://ggplot.yhathq.com/docs/labs.html
•	colors: http://sape.inf.usi.ch/quick-reference/ggplot2/colour
statsmodels Documentation:
•	http://statsmodels.sourceforge.net/devel/generated/statsmodels.regression.linear_model.OLS.html
Regression and residuals:
•	http://www.statsoft.com/Textbook/Multiple-Regression#cresidual

Section 1. Statistical Test
1.1 Which statistical test did you use to analyze the NYC subway data? Did you use a one-tail or a two-tail P value? What is the null hypothesis? What is your p-critical value?

A two-tail Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare the samples of NYC turnstile entries during rainy and not rainy weather conditions. Our null hypothesis is that these two samples come from the same population and pcrit = 0.05.

1.2 Why is this statistical test applicable to the dataset? In particular, consider the assumptions that the test is making about the distribution of ridership in the two samples.

Mann-Whitney U test was used because it does not assume equal sample size, equal variance, or normal distribution of data sets.

1.3 What results did you get from this statistical test? These should include the following numerical values: p-values, as well as the means for each of the two samples under test.

μrain = 1105.4
μdry = 1090.3
U = 1924409167.0
p = 0.049999825587

1.4 What is the significance and interpretation of these results?

At a 95% confidence interval, we can reject the null hypothesis that the samples come from the same population. Therefore, we can say that the NYC subway likely has more riders when it is raining than when it is dry.

Section 2. Linear Regression
2.1 What approach did you use to compute the coefficients theta and produce prediction for ENTRIESn_hourly in your regression model:

	OLS using Statsmodels 
	
2.2 What features (input variables) did you use in your model? Did you use any dummy variables as part of your features?

Rain, precipitation, hour, mean temperature, windspeed, mean pressure, day of week (dummy), unit (dummy), station (dummy), and weather conditions (dummy)

2.3 Why did you select these features in your model? We are looking for specific reasons that lead you to believe that the selected features will contribute to the predictive power of your model.

Initially added these features due to intuition, but checked R2 value when adding them. For example, it makes sense that more people would take the subway when weather conditions are harsher.

2.4 What are the parameters (also known as "coefficients" or "weights") of the non-dummy features in your linear regression model?

const                         9500.992976
rain                             4.602858
precipi                      -1570.789338
hour                           120.567696
meantempi                      -20.361834
wspdi                           14.427384
meanpressurei                 -332.759193

2.5 What is your model’s R2 (coefficients of determination) value?

0.489812423658

2.6 What does this R2 value mean for the goodness of fit for your regression model? Do you think this linear model to predict ridership is appropriate for this dataset, given this R2  value?

The Coefficient of determination, or R2, measures how well the model fits the data by comparing variability of the residuals to the model. R2 =1 indicates a perfect fit while R2 = 0 indicates there is no relation between the features and the data. R2 = 0.49 is a relatively low R2, meaning that the goodness of fit is low and only 49% of the variability in the data set is explained by the features selected. The histogram of residuals has very long tails suggesting that our linear regression model is likely not the right model for this dataset.

Section 3. Visualization
3.1 One visualization should contain two histograms: one of  ENTRIESn_hourly for rainy days and one of ENTRIESn_hourly for non-rainy days.
 
The histograms show that both populations are similarly positive skewed and that the dry day sample size is larger.


3.2 One visualization can be more freeform. You should feel free to implement something that we discussed in class (e.g., scatter plots, line plots) or attempt to implement something more advanced if you'd like. 
 
This bar plot shows the difference in average entries when it is raining, based on the time of day. In general, more people seem to be entering the subway system when it is raining. It’s interesting to note that there is very little change based on rain during the morning commute times (5-7am), but there is a larger change during the afternoon commute times (5-7pm). This could suggest that people tend to be set in their morning routine and are more willing to take extra time on their way home to avoid the rain, but additional analysis would be needed to confirm or refute this hypothesis.
Section 4. Conclusion
4.1 & 4.2 From your analysis and interpretation of the data, do more people ride the NYC subway when it is raining or when it is not raining?  What analyses lead you to this conclusion? You should use results from both your statistical tests and your linear regression to support your analysis.

Based on these analyses, we can say that it is likely that more people ride the NYC subway when it is raining. The null hypothesis of the Man-Whitney U test was rejected, lending support that these two samples come from different populations. The linear regression coefficient for the rain parameter was small and positive, showing that we should expect a marginal increase in ridership on rainy days.

Section 5. Reflection
5.1 Please discuss potential shortcomings of the methods of your analysis, including Dataset and analysis.

A statistical conclusion is rarely, if ever, completely certain. There is always a possibility that the sample is not representative of the entire population. In our case, it is possible that external effects that were not taken into account (road closures, events, etc.) could skew the ridership high or low for this particular month. Therefore, this data set would need to be extended over a longer period of time in order to be more certain of these results.

Analysis of the residuals shows that the histogram contains extended tails, indicating that a linear model will likely not accurately predict ridership. Plotting the residuals (shown below) shows a cyclical pattern, revealing that there is non-linearity in the data that would need to be resolved with a non-linear model. 

Additionally, there is a 5% chance that we have committed a Type I error in rejecting the null hypothesis, which would also lead to an erroneous conclusion.
